This project involved the design and development of an open source GPS receiver on an FPGA. The receiver was developed in such a way as to be completely customizable, allowing a user to easily reconfigure it for most applications involving currently-available civilian GPS technology. In addition, the receiver was designed with further development in mind by standardizing interfaces so that new algorithms, designs, and hardware modules could be quickly integrated into the existing platform.
This project involves the design and development of an open source GPS receiver on an FPGA. The receiver has been developed in such a way as to be completely customizable, allowing a user to easily reconfigure it for most applications involving currently-available civilian GPS technology. In addition, the receiver has been designed with further development in mind by standardizing interfaces so that new algorithms, designs, and hardware modules could be quickly integrated into the existing platform.

In addition to the development of the hardware receiver, a significant portion of this project has involved the creation of a system for quickly developing large-scale embedded systems projects. A methodology and set of guidelines have been developed that aid in the quick production of clean, understandable, functional code. The guidelines set forth rules for hardware development, coding style, and testing methods, all of which aid the system integration process and greatly reduce development time.  A set of software tools is in development, which enable quick generation of reusable, reconfigurable Verilog hardware. The tools have already proven to be an extremely useful and valuable resource.

All of the hardware, software, and tools developed for this project have been released to the public domain under the GNU General Public License, version 2.

We are currently working with Cornell University professors Bruce Land and Paul Kintner, and the Cornell University GNSS Research Group.